Notes [2026/01/22 Initial notes]:
When I was preparing the PD for my lines, I had the dt set to 0.5.
I didn't think too much of it until it gave me a terrible error. Steps = 200
What happened and why did it go wrong?

Well, my result was a giant squiggly line, 
I believe this is due to the reaction times being too slow and it could have overshot the distances
as dt = 0.01 worked fine

The controller becomes unstable at larger timesteps due to discrete-time effects and delayed correction.
THis can easily be adjusted by increasing the P and D sections, but I do need to increase it by a large amount and I get errors with theta when I do.


Notes [2026/01/22 at 23:00]:
kd being higher than kp is possible, however, it doesnt work too well as it just adjust according to noise errors.
D value being greater than P value will produce crazy and jittery results. Best to keep D value between 10-30% of the P value.
P value adjusts the omega radians and so we dont want the value to exceed the normal circle angles.
So is it ever ideal to have a larger D value? Likely in the event of high speed controls

Also note that having the P value set disproportionatly larger than the D value just makes things wobbly and
everything is overshot, completely missing the target range with each itteration in time. 
The system is reacting to everything by P * error and now theres an uncontrollable oscillation 


Notes [2026/01/23 at 00:06]:
I've updated the program to now compare the thetas oscillation and their angles. 
Here I can see what differences are made to the angles and how with the PD the angle does eventually reach 0.
It's pretty cool to see and visualise the changes in oscillation when the Kp or Kd change.

adjusting the kd value to be larger gives me much more oscillations (kd =0.9 and kp 5.5)
Additional notes about why my two angles dont start off at the same radian position, its because I decided to plot the graph after calculating the error.


Notes [2026/01/23 at 00:41]:
I've changed the graph to now show P, PD, and PID.
Fascinating, you can really see all of it working together. P alone overshoots the results and doesnt come close to being theta 0
PID is obviously more stable than P corrections. Changes are most notable during sharp changes in theta.